4.5 release page (#1138)
godotengine/godot-website: collections/_release_4_5/entry-systems-rendering-bent-normal-maps-support.md

---

> type: entry

Reviewer: This needs to have a before/after photo attached. This is a case where a picture is worth 1000 words

Author: > This needs to have a before/after photo attached. This is a case where a picture is worth 1000 words

I absolutely agree.

section: systems
subsection: rendering
rank: 1
importance: 2
anchor: bent-normal-maps-support
title: Bent normal maps support
blockquote: Introducing the normalbender
text: |

>   In rendering jargon, a normal is a 3D vector which is perpendicular to a surface. A normal map is then a texture where each pixel of it represent a normal - using the red, green, and blue intensity as the vector axis values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  In rendering jargon, a normal is a 3D vector which is perpendicular to a surface. A normal map is a texture where each pixel of it represent a normal - using the red, green, and blue intensity as the vector axis values.
```

>   In rendering jargon, a normal is a 3D vector which is perpendicular to a surface. A normal map is then a texture where each pixel of it represent a normal - using the red, green, and blue intensity as the vector axis values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  In rendering jargon, a normal is a 3D vector which is perpendicular to a surface. A normal map is a texture where each pixel of it represents a normal — using the red, green, and blue intensity as the vector axis values.
```

>   Normal maps are then often used on models to add surface details without having to make the meshes super detailed. If the normal map describes a bump, the lighting system will make it look like there's one, even if the underlying polygon is flat.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Normal maps are often used on models to add surface details without having to make the meshes super detailed. If the normal map describes a bump, the lighting system will make it look like there's one, even if the underlying polygon is flat.
```

Just a small grammar tweak

>   Normal maps are then often used on models to add surface details without having to make the meshes super detailed. If the normal map describes a bump, the lighting system will make it look like there's one, even if the underlying polygon is flat.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  Normal maps are then often used on models to add surface details without having to make the meshes super detailed. If the normal map describes a bump, the lighting system will make it look like there’s one, even if the underlying polygon is flat.
```

>   Normal maps are then often used on models to add surface details without having to make the meshes super detailed. If the normal map describes a bump, the lighting system will make it look like there's one, even if the underlying polygon is flat.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Normal maps are often used on models to add surface details without having to make the meshes super detailed. If the normal map describes a bump, the lighting system will make it look like there is one, even if the underlying polygon is flat.
```

>   Bent normal maps are similar, as they are a texture representing 3D vectors each pointing at something. The normals are considered "bent" because instead of being perpendicular to the surface, they actually point towards the direction of least occlusion. It means that if a theoritical bent normal map was created from the insides of a cave, each vector would actually point towards the opening.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Bent normal maps are similar, as they are a texture representing 3D vectors each pointing at something. The normals are considered "bent" because instead of being perpendicular to the surface, they actually point towards the direction of least occlusion (i.e. the direction with the least amount of stuff blocking the incoming light). For example, if a theoretical bent normal map was created from the insides of a cave, each vector would point towards the opening.
```

>   Bent normal maps are similar, as they are a texture representing 3D vectors each pointing at something. The normals are considered "bent" because instead of being perpendicular to the surface, they actually point towards the direction of least occlusion. It means that if a theoritical bent normal map was created from the insides of a cave, each vector would actually point towards the opening.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Bent normal maps are similar, as they are a texture representing 3D vectors each pointing at something. The normals are considered "bent" because instead of being perpendicular to the surface, they actually point towards the direction of least occlusion. It means that if a theoretical bent normal map was created from the insides of a cave, each vector would actually point towards the opening.
```

>   Bent normal maps are similar, as they are a texture representing 3D vectors each pointing at something. The normals are considered "bent" because instead of being perpendicular to the surface, they actually point towards the direction of least occlusion. i.e. the direction with the least amount of stuff blocking the incoming light). For example, if a theoretical bent normal map was created from the insides of a cave, each vector would point towards the opening.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  Bent normal maps are similar, as they are textures representing 3D vectors each pointing at something. The normals are considered "bent" because instead of being perpendicular to the surface, they actually point towards the direction of least occlusion, i.e. the direction with the least amount of stuff blocking the incoming light). For example, if a theoretical bent normal map was created from the inside of a cave, each vector would point towards the opening.
```

Author: The term ["insides"](https://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionary/english/insides) is used as a image here intentionally. The rocks and textures of a cave are akin to bowels.

Reviewer 3: Then I'd suggest bowels to make it explicit, as it's confusing otherwise

  What does it mean? Why should we care about the direction of least occlusion?

>   This information is extremely valueable to the renderer. It is used to further enhance specular occlusion (darken areas that shouldn't be receiving a lot of reflections) and indirect lighting (provide more accurate reflections).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  This information is extremely valuable to the renderer. It is used to further enhance specular occlusion (darken areas that shouldn’t be receiving a lot of reflections) and indirect lighting (provide more accurate reflections).
```

  Normal maps are often used on models to add surface details without having to make the meshes super detailed. If the normal map describes a bump, the lighting system will make it look like there is one, even if the underlying polygon is flat.

>   Bent normal maps are similar, as they are textures representing 3D vectors each pointing at something. The normals are considered "bent" because instead of being perpendicular to the surface, they actually point towards the direction of least occlusion. i.e. the direction with the least amount of stuff blocking the incoming light). For example, if a theoretical bent normal map was created from the insides of a cave, each vector would point towards the opening.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  Bent normal maps are similar, as they are textures representing 3D vectors each pointing at something. The normals are considered "bent" because instead of being perpendicular to the surface, they actually point towards the direction of least occlusion, i.e. the direction with the least amount of stuff blocking the incoming light. For example, if a theoretical bent normal map was created from the insides of a cave, each vector would point towards the opening.
```
You missed this one

Also stray closing paren, so it might better be:
```suggestion
  Bent normal maps are similar, as they are textures representing 3D vectors each pointing at something. The normals are considered "bent" because instead of being perpendicular to the surface, they actually point towards the direction of least occlusion (i.e. the direction with the least amount of stuff blocking the incoming light). For example, if a theoretical bent normal map was created from the insides of a cave, each vector would point towards the opening.
```

Author: I used finally an em dash.

> The normals are considered "bent" because instead of being perpendicular to the surface, they actually point towards the direction of least occlusion—i.e. the direction with the least amount of stuff blocking the incoming light.
